# dh


Data in the Humanities: 
Interpreting the Humanities in a Digital World

  It's easy to perceive the rise of the Digital Humanities as inevitable: with the rapid expansion of Digital Huamnities projects, the scope and size of what the humanities can be has been completely reimagined. However, in a field with such exciting possibilities, the work of humanities scholars remains ever more pertinent as they are tasked with the responsibility of maintaing the same cultural and critical perspective that defines the humanities. By focusing on the work of humanist scholars Alan Liu, Kate Boyde & Dana Crawford, Trevor Owens, Justin Grimmer, and Dr.Nan Z Da, this project utilizes their arguments to analyze both the challenges and the benefits of scholarship in the Digital Humanities. Ultimately, the authors guide us to the possibility of the digital, but only when the digital is met with the same scrutiny, rigor, and standards that characterize humanist work. They caution against the proposed objectivity of Big Data, and remind us that data becomes knowledge only when it is contextualized and interpreted.    

  This presentation was done in collaboration with John Schulz, Jack Xie and Matthew Mason at the University of California, Berkeley. The process of collaboration was completely virtual due to the cancellation of in person classes under the  COVID-19 summer 2020 guidelines. In order to do this project, all work was divided evenly between team members from the gathering of information, submitting a proposal, and creating a presentation. Tools such as zoom helped faciliate conversation and communication; however, due to the lack of in person communication, the project could easily become alienating at times. Google Docs and slides have a chat option available that we used when collaborating because of its inconvenience. Yet, I always found that we produced the best work when meeting over a call, and where we had the ability to resemble in person communication as best as we could. Overall, this project made it clear that technological efficiency or convenience often comes at the cost of in person interactions. Resisting the temptation of iffeciency becomes increasingly difficult when your only form of communication is the technological. Although I was still able to learn from the different insights my partners had on the authors' arguements, this project was telling of the new forms of interaction that characterize the era of COVID-19 and that will continue to impact it in the future. 
  
  
Police Budgets and Police Violence: Unpacking Social Reform in the Wake of the 21st century 

  In the wake of the police killings of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, Tamir Rice, and countless outhers, . Taking data from Mapping Police Violence's online tool, I've taken the the ten police departments with the highest average of police killings from 2013-2018, and analyzed them from 2013-2019. This analysis is threefold as each police department is analyzed in respect to their annual police budget, their annunal number of police killings--indexed by race, and a yearly report of their itemized police budget. The reasearch showed the discreptancy between the level of transparancey in police department aggregation,trends across police departmets for the year 2015/16, and displayed the financial side of the increased militarization of police departments.  



